# ETL_Case_Study

Track COVID-19 vaccinations around the world using extract, transform, and load functionality.


## Background:

 The momentum of the Covid-19 pandemic has tapered. There has been a push for people to get vaccinated prior to returning to high-risk jobs, visiting countries, and vacationing. We wanted to understand Covid-19 vaccination around the world. According to each country's population, are people fully vaccinated? Which country has the highest fully vaccinated population per one hundred? What vaccination manufacturers are being used? Here we take a look at an analysis of COVID-19 vaccinations per country and the manufacturers they use.


## Data Analysis:

1. What countries have the most fully COVID-19 vaccinated people? (List Top/Bottom 5 Countries)
2. In the top 5 countries with the most completed COVID-19 vaccinated people, what vaccine manufacturers do they use? 
3. Based on population (fully vaccinated per 100), what percent of people are fully vaccinated? Help to debunk that   
   countries with larger populations have a higher chance to have “more” vaccinated people than countries with a smaller population.
4. What are the different types of COVID-19 vaccinations administered in the United States?

## Create a ‘covid_vaccination_db’ database with two schemas(tables) in pgAdmin 4:

   * Table 1

      - country_vaccinations

   * Columns

      - country (pk)
      - people_fully_vaccinated
      - people_fully_vaccinated_per_hundred(%)

   * Table 2

      - vaccination_manufacturers

   * Columns

      - Id (Unique pk (generated by system))
      - country (Fk)
      - Vaccine_manufacturer
      - Total_vaccinations_per_manufacturer

# Extract:

    - Two Datasets (As of March 2022
        1. Country_vaccinations_by_manufacturer.csv
        2. Country_vaccinations.csv
    - Load CSV files (both datasets)
    - Read CSV files

## Transform:

  - Tools used
  1. Python
  2. Pandas
  3. Numpy
  4. Matplotlib
  5. Jupyter Notebook

## Data wrangling performed

  1. Data cleaning
  2. Define arrays to store countries and desired values 
  3. Data iteration (for loop)
  4. Pandas - DataFrame
      A. Ensure to rename columns to fit created database above
  5. Data filtering
  6. Summarization
  7. Aggregating
  8. Set index

## Load:

 - Create a connection to the database in jupyter notebook to pgAdmin 4
 - Append data frames to tables
 - Confirm successful load by querying the database
     . Join the two tables on country
